what is transudcer?
transducer convert physical data such as temperature ,ligh intensity and speed to electical singals>Sepending on the transducer, hte ouput produced is in the from of voltage ,current resistance or capacitance.
transducer :is something that changes the ouput voltage based on the changing of pyhsical probery value.

for example if there is a material which it's resistance change with temp change.

like the ldr (photo resistor) which its resistance changes based on the changes of the light intensity.

the lm35 :is a temperature sensor i connect one end with the 5 volt and the right end to the ground 
and the middle end i take the voltage reading from and this reading changes linarly with the changin of the 
temperature. on some range.

any analog sensor work like this have three pins and the pin in the center gives changing voltage based on
the change of the physical proberty it measures .

if pin of the microcontroller if it was input it only measures one state high or low 
and it won't able to detect the change in the volt comming from those analog sensors.

this is the job of the adc .

every adc have a reslution and it is determined the the size of the number of bits that this adc 
use to store the value of the reading.

we sit the refrance voltage value of the adc ,which is the maximum voltage that can be input to this adc.
and it map the analog value between the lowets and the higest voltage that is coming from the sensor and put the value in the 
registerr of the adc so for example :
if there is a sensor that reads temp from 0 to 100 and its resistance changes based on the temp it's reading 
i can make a voltage divider circuit and put the sensor as on of the two resistors and give 5 volt to the circut and hte 
other end of the circut connected to the ground and take the voltage reading between the sensor and the other 
resistor when the temp change the resistance of the sensor will change and the output voltage will change 
. and i can take this reading and enter it to the microcontroller if the temp 0 the ouput voltage will be 0 
and if the temp was 100 the the sensor will have no resistance and the ouput voltage will be 5 and the job 
of the adc to map every little change on this input voltage to the microcontroller to a change 
of the register of the adc .

 so for example if the adc resultion was 10 bit that measn he have a 10 bit to put the values on it 

 and the resltion of this adc will be 5v /1024=4.88 mv so every increase about 4.88 mv the reading in this 
 register will increase by one so if the reading was 0 the 10 bit value will be zero and if the reading 
 was 3mv the 10bit register reading will be 0 also and if the reading was 5 the reading of the 10 bit will be 
 like this 00 0000 0001 and if it was 10 mv it will be like this 00 0000 0010 and so on and if it was 5 volt 
 it will be like this 11 1111 1111 which is the maximum value that this adc can detect.

 i should look for something when configure any microcontroller wiht its adc :
 which pin should i connect the sensor ouput to .
 what is the register address that this adc will write its value to .

 the pins that can connect to analog voltage(and the only ones ) in atmega 32 and those pins are the only ones that 
 is connected to the adc of the microcontroller .

 the multiplexer is something that have a lot of inputs and allow one on them to be the  ouput at a time.
 because it only have one ouput pin or more as i think but should be less than the input number of pins .

 in in our microcontroller the multiplexer of the adc have a register that i can write a value to 
 it to choose which pin of the port a will be input to the adc in which time .

 everything in the microcontroller needs clock ot operate so for example the dio pins 
 also need clock to work but in atmega 32 it uses the same clock of the cpu and can't be changed.
 so if i was having a 8mhz crystal and connect high to input pin and stop it before 8 micro second passess 
 the cpu won't know that there was a high on the pin .

 the adc also needs clock to work which is between 50 khz and 200 khz .

 and we need hardware circut inside the microcontroller called prescaller will take the 8mhz of the 
 crystal we have and output a pulse every  64 clock to map from 8 mhz to 200k reqired by the adc.

 in our register there are fixed values that can be written to this prescaller .

 and the voltage refrance can be set in a register called adumax first left two bits .
the other bits of this regissterr is used for the multiplexer which i choose which pin of port a pin i will read from .


in embedded it is forbidden to put numbers in the code all #define and enums.

the adcsra first bit is enable which start and stop the adc and here there is a problem 
if i want to save the power because i m working on a bettery i should not leave the adc working all time 
i should start it when i want to read analog data and stop it after but our adc from the data sheet take 25 cycle 
the first read after first working which is slow comparing the time required to read after that 13 ms.

the adc can work in two modes singel conversion mode which will give me one reading of the sensor on the required pin and stop 
and free running mode will give readings every 13 ms continus.

the read of the adc gets stored in two registers because our system is 8 bit so the max register size 
is 8 bit and there is two option to store the reading of each register (in our system the reading get stored in two register next two next to each other).
and in the data sheet it gives me two options one to and i will explain with exmaple if the reading was 512.
which is represneted in the binary this way 10 0000 0011 
lets assume the registers are in the memory addresses 0x24,0x25;
the first option :

0x25= 0000 0010 //adc high 
0x24= 0000 0011  //adc low
the second option :
0x25= 1000 0000 //adc high 

0x24= 1100 0000 //adc low

in the first option i can make a short variable and give it the address of the first register only and the compiler will read the 
two register together .

the usage of the second option if want the speed of reading instead of reading two register i could the 
the adc high register only and ignore the low beacuse this will affect the accuracy in 15mv only if the refrence was 5 v.
which is not a big deal if i care about the speed of reading instead of the accuracy.


the should put the pins of the adc that the sensor is connected to as infree,because inpullup the internal resistor will change the value of the reading 
and ouput will ouput a voltage and the sensor will input a voltage and this will make a problem .

there is a pin called avcc this pin i should connect the refrence voltage to it so the adc can take this pin as a refrence .

tasks:
1-write a funcion that print the volt of a sensor on the screen not a number .
2- connect the ldr to the kit and make it have four levels and there are four leds working from the led array of hte kit.
first level with the flash of the mobile there will be no led working .
second level : the room noraml light one led working 
third level : the room is dark three leds working 
fourth level : i coverd the sensor the four leds should work.
3_ search the benefit of the diffrencial mode  which i can use to measure the voltage differnce between two pins of adc instead of readding one pin value.

